Practical No 10

Case Study of Cloud Computing

1. Amazon EC2 Case Study
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute
platform, with over 500 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking,
operating system. Amazon EC2 is the first major cloud provider that supports Intel, AMD, and
Arm processors, the only cloud with on-demand EC2 Mac instances, and the only cloud with
400 Gbps Ethernet networking. It offers the best price performance for machine learning
training, as well as the lowest cost per inference instances in the cloud.

Amazon EC2 provides the broadest and deepest instance choice to match your workload’s
needs. General purpose, compute optimized, memory optimized, storage optimized, and
accelerated computing instance types are available that provide the optimal compute, memory,
storage, and networking balance for various workloads. Processors from Intel, AMD, NVIDIA
and AWS power these instance types and provide additional performance and cost

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 2
optimizations. Local storage and enhanced networking options available with instance types
further help optimize performance for workloads that are disk or network I/O bound. Many
instance types also offer bare metal instances that provide your applications with direct access
to the processor and memory of the underlying server for running in non-virtualized
environments or for applications where user want to use his/her own hypervisor. User can also
use the AWS Compute Optimizer to get recommendations on optimal AWS Compute resources
for your workloads to reduce costs and improve performance.

Global Infrastructure
i. Multiple Locations
Amazon EC2 provides the ability to place instances in multiple locations. Amazon EC2
locations are composed of Regions and Availability Zones. Availability Zones are distinct
locations that are engineered to be insulated from failures in other Availability Zones and
provide inexpensive, low latency network connectivity to other Availability Zones in the same
Region. By launching instances in separate Availability Zones, user can protect applications
from failure of a single location. Regions consist of one or more Availability Zones and are
geographically dispersed. The Amazon EC2 Service Level Agreement commitment is 99.99%
availability for each Amazon EC2 Region.
ii. Cost and Capacity Optimization
• Pay for What You Use
With per-second billing, user only pay for what he/she use.
• Scale Seamlessly with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling allows user to automatically scale Amazon EC2 capacity
up or down according to conditions user define. User can use the dynamic and
predictive scaling policies within EC2 Auto Scaling to add or remove EC2 instances.
Predictive scaling uses machine learning to proactively allocate instances based on
anticipated demand, and dynamic scaling allows user to scale compute based on defined
metrics.
iii. Optimized CPU Configurations
The Optimize CPUs feature gives user greater control of Amazon EC2 instances on two fronts.
First, user can specify a custom number of vCPUs when launching new instances to save on
vCPU-based licensing costs. Second, user can disable Intel Hyper-Threading Technology

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 3
(Intel HT Technology) for workloads that perform well with single-threaded CPUs, such as
certain high-performance computing (HPC) applications.
iv. Pause and Resume Your Instances
You can hibernate your Amazon EC2 instances backed by Amazon EBS, and resume them
from this state at a later time. Applications that take a while to bootstrap and persist state into
memory (RAM) can benefit from this feature.
v. Storage
Optimal storage for every workload
Different Amazon EC2 workloads can have vastly different storage requirements. Beyond the
built-in instance storage, Amazon also offer Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)
and Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) to suit other cloud storage workload
requirements. Amazon EBS provides persistent, highly available, consistent, low-latency block
storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances, while Amazon EFS provides simple,
scalable, persistent, fully managed cloud file storage for shared access.
vi. Networking
High Packet-Per-Second Performance and Low Latency with Enhanced Networking. Enhanced
Networking enables you to get significantly higher packet per second (PPS) performance,
lower network jitter and lower latencies. This feature uses a network virtualization stack that
provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utilization compared to traditional
implementations. For instructions on how to enable Enhanced Networking on EC2 instances,
see the Enhanced Networking on Linux and Enhanced Networking on Windows tutorials.

vii. Run High Levels of Inter-Node Communications with Elastic Fabric
Adapter
Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) is a network interface for Amazon EC2 instances that enables
customers to run applications requiring high levels of inter-instance communications, like
machine learning, computational fluid dynamics, weather modeling, and reservoir simulation,
at scale on AWS.
viii. Manage Dynamic Cloud Computing Services with Elastic IP Addresses
Elastic IP addresses are static IP addresses designed for dynamic cloud computing. An Elastic
IP address is associated with user count, not with a particular instance, and user controls that
address until user choose to explicitly release it. Unlike traditional static IP addresses.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 4
ix. High Throughput and Low Latency with High Performance Computing
(HPC)
Clusters
Customers with complex computational workloads such as tightly coupled parallel processes,
or with applications sensitive to network performance, can achieve the same high compute and
network performance provided by custom-built infrastructure while benefiting from the
elasticity, flexibility and cost advantages of Amazon EC2. Cluster Compute, Cluster GPU, and

High Memory Cluster instances have been specifically engineered to provide high-
performance network capability and can be programmatically launched into clusters – allowing

applications to get the low-latency network performance required for tightly coupled, node-to-
node communication.

x. Operating Systems and Software
Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) are preconfigured with an ever-growing list of operating
systems, including Microsoft Windows and Linux distributions such as Amazon Linux 2,
Ubuntu, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, SUSE and Debian.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 5

2. Microsoft Azure

What Is Microsoft Azure?
Microsoft Azure is a Microsoft cloud service provider that provides cloud computing
services like computation, storage, security and many other domains. Microsoft is one of
the global leaders when it comes to Cloud solutions and global cloud infrastructure.
Microsoft Azure provides services in 60+ global regions and serves in 140 counties. It
provides services in the form of Infrastructure as a service, Platform as a Service and
Software as a service. It even provides serverless computing meaning, developer need to
put his/her own code and all his/her backend activities as managed by Microsoft Azure.
It easily integrates with Microsoft Products making it very popular using Microsoft
products. This platform is now 10 years old and it picked up to compete with the best of
the best.

Advantages
On-Demand Scalability
Application Hosting can never be sure of how many resources are enough and how many
are too much. This is the nature of businesses that rely on varying traffics. Microsoft Azure
helps user to save all this effort.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 6
Microsoft Azure ensures users applications and data is distributed well enough that means
user never run short of Server space. It also means applications do not run on a single server
making them available even in awful situations. Since these resources are properly
clustered out and they can scale at will and in no time, your applications function very
differently then they would in an on-premise architecture.

Cost Effective
One of the major benefits with cloud service providers is the cut down of upfront costs.
Since user can configure and scale as needed, hence not required to invest heavily here.
Microsoft Azure ensures small scale investment does not require upfront costs. Also, when
it comes to people who have signed up contracts, they get heavy discounts. It also offers to
Pay as go, model, meaning user get cost-cutting in the right sense.

Hybrid Environments
They say cloud is not a one fit solution for all. It is true indeed because every business will
have its own set of problems. And not all businesses will always be in a state where they
can migrate to the cloud entirely. While other platforms suffer here, as people either have
to migrate to those platforms or call it off totally, Microsoft Azure benefits with its Hybrid
approach. Meaning, with Microsoft Azure user can build Hybrid infrastructures, where

users resources can partially reside on the cloud and can partially operate from an on-
premise infrastructure. Hence users are safe from costly workaround.

Big data Applications
Hadoop and Big data are the need of the hour. With data increasing exponentially we need
applications that can help process this data. Microsoft Azure brings this capability of
processing large volumes of data on top of its cloud platform. Azure HDinsight ensures
user can use Apache Hadoop as a cloud solution. This is a power-packed service that lets
user deal with large data volumes. That means users data crunching becomes easier.
It also readily integrates with data visualization tools and also lets user move data to excel.
This means data visualization concerns are resolved quickly. With excel user can create
visualizations and with PowerBI integrating with Microsoft Azure users data be converted
into any visual that you require.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 7

Integration Capabilities
Microsoft has been in the software industry for decades. It has wide reach in the software
market and not many can compete with it when it comes to customer base and stack of
products it offers. The advantage for Microsoft Azure here is that it readily integrates with
most of these products. Be it, connecting to SaaS, PaaS, IaaS applications or even
something like Visual Studio or Active Directory, Microsoft Azure. Hence user can now
leverage ERPs and CRMs to enhance business capacity to a greater level.

Storage and Security
Storage is very critical to any application. It is no different for applications running on
cloud. The volume of data we handle these days is huge. It also comes in different formats
and from different sources. Storage resources have to adept enough to handle this data.
Microsoft Azure lets user store data in form of files, objects, structured and unstructured
data and a lot more. This happens reliable and securely.
Talking of security Microsoft Azure ensures high level of security for user applications. It
ensures all the resources in Azure cloud are guarded with firewalls and data is moved over
the network with encryption. User have access to authentication and access management
meaning user data and application are secure to the core.
Scheduling and Automation
Everyone hates doing repetitive tasks. What if we could automate mundane tasks or
recurring tasks be it fetching some data, setting up triggers or scaling your resources when
needed? Microsoft Azure does that for you ensuring you can utilise your workforce for
more productive outcomes and get rid of stagnancy or repetition of work.
Data Backup and Recovery
Data Backup ensures you have a copy of your data maintained in case if your primary copy
of data or resources is lost. With Microsoft Azure, you have an option of backing up your
data in different Azure regions or data centres. You can maintain as many as six copies of
your data. This signifies that the chance of losing your data on Microsoft Azure is minimal.
When it comes to reliability your data is available 99.9 percent.
So, this was About the benefits of Microsoft Azure. Let us go ahead see do customers have
to about Microsoft Azure and what are some of the popular use cases it has to offer to us.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 8

• Use Cases of Microsoft Azure
Microsoft has many popular customers out there, here are some use cases for you,

➢ University Of Toronto
This is the largest Canadian university and leads the global front when it comes to research
at an institutional fare. It made use of Microsoft Azure to avoid heavy hardware renewal
costs. It migrated some of its activities to Microsoft Azure Cloud. With it, the university
managed to transform IT processes, saving a lot of time

➢ AkzoNobel
AkzoNobel is a popular Dutch Company that leads way in paint and coating business. It
serves in more than 100 countries and always needs better connectivity across the globe. It
harnessed the power of Microsoft Azure IoT services to improve its performance and
connectivity at a global level.

➢ IHG (Intercontinental Hotel Group)
This is one of the largest and leading hotel groups in the world. It owns around 5200
properties across the globe and serves more than a hundred countries. The fact that you
own 5200 properties tells you the group holds its values of service very truly and also must
have experimented a lot to stay up to date with market needs as well. This fact is also
supported by the fact that this group invests a lot of money in innovations to meet the
experience quality the customers deserve.
The company has many of its tools that require Agile practices. It already was based on
Azure Cloud platform. This is when they decided to use DevOps Services on Microsoft
Azure.
Ever since it has moved to Azure StorSimple, which is a hybrid storage service for
enterprises. The group has achieved great results when it comes to storing data. It has
helped them save more 70 percent in terms of cost. This is something that was initiated four
years ago. It needed very little support in setting up and does require too much intervention
when it comes to administrative attention.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 9

3. Google Cloud

Google Cloud Platform, offered by Google, is a suite of cloud computing services that runs on
the same infrastructure that Google uses internally for its end-user products, such as Google
Search, Gmail, Google Drive, and YouTube.

Google Cloud Platform (GCP) has emerged as a key suite of tools to power university
infrastructure, research, and teaching. It provides a powerful infrastructure, data analytics, and
machine learning to free institutions from the overhead of managing infrastructure,
provisioning servers, and configuring networks. But higher education institutions needed key
customizations and enhancements to the service to implement and fully leverage GCP.

• Why Google Cloud
1. Run your apps wherever you need them
Avoid vendor lock-in with Google Cloud’s commitment to open source, multicloud, and hybrid
cloud—allowing you to use your data and run your apps on any cloud or in any environment.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 10
Our open cloud solutions provide consistency between public and private clouds, enabling
businesses to modernize and developers to build faster in any environment.
2. Make smarter decisions with the leading data platform
Maximize insights from your data with Google Cloud’s machine learning and advanced
analytics capabilities. Our serverless data analytics and machine learning platform helps you
automate processes, make intelligent predictions, and streamline management and operations.
3. Run on the cleanest cloud in the industry
Power your workloads on a net carbon-neutral cloud. Electricity used to run Google Cloud
products and services is matched 100% with renewable energy. As the only major cloud
provider to purchase enough renewable energy to cover all operations, Google Cloud offers
your business a path to sustainability.
4. Operate confidently with advanced security tools
Google Cloud protects your data, applications, infrastructure, and customers from fraudulent
activity, spam, and abuse with the same infrastructure and security services Google uses.
Google Cloud’s networking, data storage, and compute services provide data encryption at rest,
in transit, and in use. Advanced security tools support compliance and data confidentiality.

5. Transform how you connect and collaborate

Google Workspace provides your workforce with chat, email, video calling, and document
collaboration apps in a single space. With an integrated workspace, teams collaborate more
effectively, frontline workers stay connected, and businesses can build new customer
experiences.

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 11

6. Save money, increase efficiency, and optimize spend
86% of Google Cloud customers agree that "Google Cloud helped increase their operational
efficiency and optimize IT spend," according to a TechValidate study. Google Cloud saves you
money with our transparent and innovative approach to pricing. Reduce time spent on platform
management by 40% to 55% with Anthos. Save up to 32% when you migrate applications to
Google Cloud versus running them on-premises.

7. Get customized solutions for your specific industry
Google Cloud helps drive business transformation for some of the world’s leading companies
in retail, financial services, manufacturing, media, gaming, entertainment, telco, public sector,
and healthcare. Google Cloud partners with our customers to build customized solutions for
their toughest challenges. Businesses like Procter & Gamble and Target trust Google Cloud
because of our industry-first solutions, expertise, and robust ecosystem of partners.

Trust and security

• Trusted cloud infrastructure
Take advantage of the same secure-by-design infrastructure, built-in protection, and global
network that Google uses to protect your information, identities, applications, and devices. Our
stack builds security through progressive layers that deliver true defense in depth at scale.
• Encryption by default, at rest and in transit
We encrypt data in transit between our facilities and at rest, ensuring that it can only be accessed
by authorized roles and services with audited access to the encryption keys. Learn more about
how we encrypt data at rest and how we encrypt data in transit.
• Data privacy
Protecting the privacy of Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace customers is a priority
and codified in our Enterprise Privacy Commitments, which guide our security and privacy
practices. Learn more about how we protect privacy and keep you in control in our privacy
resource center.

• Transparency
We work to earn your trust through transparency. We state and adhere to a concrete set of trust
principles that govern our approach to security. We only process data in accordance with our

Case Study of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud for TYCS

AARTI PARDESHI 12
terms and data protection agreements and clearly outline our policies on responding to
government requests.

Drive transformation with Google's multicloud solutions

GC offer you the flexibility to migrate, build, and optimize apps across hybrid and multicloud
environments while minimizing vendor lock-in, leveraging best-in-breed solutions, and
meeting regulatory requirements.st