Practical  6
Using Sysinternals tools for Network Tracking and Process Monitoring
1. Check Sysinternals tools
Google>sysinternal tools
2.  Monitor Live Processes
Process Monitor is an advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time file 
system, Registry and process/thread activity. It combines the features of two legacy 
Sysinternals utilities, Filemon and Regmon, and adds an extensive list of enhancements 
including rich and non-destructive filtering, comprehensive event properties such 
session IDs and user names, reliable process information, full thread stacks with 
integrated symbol support for each operation, simultaneous logging to a file, and much 
more. Its uniquely powerful features will make Process Monitor a core utility in your 
system troubleshooting and malware hunting toolkit.
Go to Process monitor > download > Open > Filter > any process name (autopsy)
3. Capture RAM
RAMMap is an advanced physical memory usage analysis utility for Windows Vista and 
higher. It presents usage information in different ways on its several different tabs:
>	Use Counts: usage summary by type and paging list
>	Processes: process working set sizes
>	Priority Summary: prioritized standby list sizes
>	Physical Pages: per-page use for all physical memory
>	Physical Ranges: physical memory addresses
>	File Summary: file data in RAM by file
>	File Details: individual physical pages by file
Use RAMMap to gain understanding of the way Windows manages memory, to analyze 
application memory usage, or to answer specific questions about how RAM is being 
allocated. RAMMap’s refresh feature enables you to update the display and it includes 
support for saving and loading memory snapshots.
STEPS   Download > RAMMap

4.Capture TCP/UDP packets
TCPView is a Windows program that will show you detailed listings of all TCP and UDP
endpoints on your system, including the local and remote addresses and state of TCP 
connections. On Windows Server 2008, Vista, and XP, TCPView also reports the name of 
the process that owns the endpoint. TCPView provides a more informative and conveniently
presented subset of the Netstat program that ships with Windows. The TCPView download 
includes Tcpvcon, a command-line version with the same functionality.
Using TCPView
When you start TCPView it will enumerate all active TCP and UDP endpoints, 
resolving all IP addresses to their domain name versions. You can use a toolbar 
button or menu item to toggle the display of resolved names. On Windows XP systems, 
TCPView shows the name of the process that owns each endpoint.By default, TCPView 
updates every second, but you can use the Options|Refresh Rate menu item to change 
the rate. Endpoints that change state from one update to the next are highlighted in 
yellow; those that are deleted are shown in red, and new endpoints are shown in green.
You can close established TCP/IP connections (those labeled with a state of ESTABLISHED) by selecting File|Close Connections, or by right-clicking on a connection and choosing Close Connections from the resulting context menu.You can save TCPView's output window to a file using the Save menu item.
Using Tcpvcon
Tcpvcon usage is similar to that of the built-in Windows netstat utility:
Usage: tcpvcon [-a] [-c] [-n] [process name or PID]

Parameter	Description
-a	Show all endpoints (default is to show established TCP connections).
-c	Print output as CSV.
-n	Don't resolve addresses.

STEPS
Download TCPView

5. Monitor Hard Disk
DiskMon is an application that logs and displays all hard disk activity on a Windows 
system. You can also minimize DiskMon to your system tray where it acts as a disk light, 
presenting a green icon when there is disk-read activity and a red icon when there is 
disk-write activity.
Download DiskMon  Run as administrator

6.Monitor Virtual Memory
VMMap is a process virtual and physical memory analysis utility. It shows a breakdown 
of a process's committed virtual memory types as well as the amount of physical memory 
(working set) assigned by the operating system to those types. Besides graphical 
representations of memory usage, VMMap also shows summary information and a detailed 
process memory map. Powerful filtering and refresh capabilities allow you to identify 
the sources of process memory usage and the memory cost of application features
Download VMMap

7.Monitor Cache Memory
CacheSet is an applet that allows you to manipulate the working-set parameters of the 
system file cache. Unlike CacheMan, CacheSet runs on all versions of NT and will work 
without modifications on new Service Pack releases. In addition to providing you the 
ability to control the minimum and maximum working set sizes, it also allows you to 
reset the Cache's working set, forcing it to grow as necessary from a minimal starting 
point. Also unlike CacheMan, changes made with CacheSet have an immediate effect on 
the size of the Cache. 

